# 2SATsolver

Lists K solutions of a 2 SAT instance, having a minimum Hamming distance between them.

## Example

### Example Compilation

Compile the example with:

```sh
nvcc -Xcompiler -fopenmp -lgomp -Iinclude src/main.cu -o bin/main
```

### Example Usage

Run the example with:

```sh
bin/main [-c] [-v] <test_file> <number of solutions> <minimum hamming distance>
```

- The `-c` flag is used to run the serial algorithm after the parallel one, then compare the execution times.
- The `-v` flag is used to print the solutions.

Many test files can be found in the `test_data` directory.
Using the same binary file, you can test every file in the `test_data` directory using the script `test_all.sh`.

## Instance generator

This program reads a 2 SAT instance from a text file, The file should contain one clause per line.
Letters are represented by numbers from 0 to N, with the requirement that each number in this range must appear at least once.
Negations are represented by prefixing the character "_".

An instance generated by this program is not guaranteed to be solvable, it only satisfies the above requirements.

### Instance generator Compilation

Compile the generator with:

```sh
nvcc 2cnf_generator/2cnf_generator.cu -o bin/gen
```

### Instance generator Usage

Run the generator with:

```sh
bin/gen <number of formulas> <probability of new variable> <output filename>
```

## Benchmark

You can evaluate the performance of the solution generation algorithm under various configurations.

### Benchmark Compilation

Compile the benchmark with:

```sh
nvcc -Xcompiler -fopenmp -lgomp -Iinclude src/benchmark.cu -o bin/benchmark
```

### Benchmark Usage

Run the benchmark with:

```sh
bin/benchmark <repetitions number> <solutions number> <formulas per instance> <minimum distance between solutions> <probability to generate new variables> <parallel=1, serial=0> <output filename>
```

- `<repetitions number>`: Number of times to repeat the benchmark.
- `<solutions number>`: Number of solutions to generate per repetition.
- `<formulas per instance>`: Number of formulas per instance.
- `<minimum distance between solutions>`: Minimum Hamming distance between generated solutions.
- `<probability to generate new variables>`: Probability (0.0–1.0) to introduce new variables in formulas.
- `<parallel=1, serial=0>`: Set to 1 for parallel execution (GPU), 0 for serial execution (CPU).
- `<output filename>`: Path to the file where benchmark results will be saved.

Adjust these parameters as needed to evaluate different scenarios and performance characteristics.
